>> Mike North: Here's our array example.
Index signatures which look like this
here, square brackets, makes sense right.
Because that's how we access a property
off of an object with an arbitrary key.
We are saying if you access a property off
a phone number dict and give it a string.
It'll either not be there at all,
or it'll have this form.
Now, when you are defining
a dictionary type like this, and
a dictionary is just a key
value data structure,
you have almost certainly used
an object as a dictionary before in
JavaScript property keys with
consistent object types, right.
You've got to be careful that you don't
type this in such a way that TypeScript
gives you a false guarantee that no
matter what property key you pass in,
you will definitely get
a well-defined value out.
Let's look at what would
happen if we did that.
>> Mike North: So, an empty object
is a valid case here, right?
No keys, and
no matter what I do it's acting
like there's something there for me.
This is a hard to track down error
waiting to happen, so don't do that.
By adding undefined,
>> Mike North: We force,
>> Mike North: A check on this, and
what you'd have to do
is something like this.
>> Mike North: See how up here
the undefined is present?
And inside the block following the
condition the undefined has disappeared.
What we have done here
is narrowed the type.
TypeScript understands that this
condition that it understands that
this type here can never
have a truthy value, never.
So, there is no way for an undefined
value to pass into this block here.
And this is the proper use
that we would want anyway.
Because if we're just handed something and
we're told that it's this type we don't
necessarily know what's on there.
We don't know which keys are valid for
looking things up.
So, conditions can be
used to narrow types.
We could do it a different way.
>> Mike North: It's just the inverse,
right?
We're checking to see if
the type of d.abc is an object.
>> Mike North: Let's see what
happens with this, impossible.
It says this is like in terms of the Venn
diagram TypeScript's always trying to
figure out a way to make things work.
This is a situation
where it's saying okay,
this can either be undefined or an object.
So now we have some code that would
run in the case where it's a string.
Never gonna happen never,
so you get never.
I'll leave that there so
you can follow on that.
Okay, here is our phone number dictionary.
And this is just demonstrating
that we can place values in there
if we misspelt something we'd
get busted on it, right.
It's telling us there's no araCode,
we have to spell that right, areaCode.
I'm gonna try editing it in a second, but
let's just see what happens right now.
So, we can eliminate it because if this
were in our contacts page in our phone,
we could have multiple
phone numbers there.
Some people are not gonna
have a home number,
they'll only have an office number,
so, this is fine.
So it look likes the structure of
these values here, that's enforced.
But we have total control over
what the properties keys are.
One thing that's important to know is
that you can only have at most one string
index signature and
one number index signature.
So, you could change this to like number
and have something slightly different than
if you passed a string in and
tried to access a property that way.